---
layout:     post
title:     JavaScript Notes 2
subtitle:   BY Guanqiao Huang
date:       2018-12-25
author:     HUANG
header-img: img/post-bg-universe.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - JavaScript
---
# CONDITIONAL STATEMENTS
## If Statement
In programming, we can also perform a task based on a condition using an if statement:

```Javascript
if (true) {
  console.log('This message will print!'); 
}
// Prints: This message will print!
```

Notice in the example above, we have an if statement. The if statement is composed of:

- The `if` keyword followed by a set of parentheses `()` which is followed by a code block, or block statement, indicated by a set of curly braces `{}`.
- Inside the parentheses `()`, a condition is provided that evaluates to `true` or `false`.
- If the condition evaluates to `true`, the code inside the curly braces `{}` runs, or executes.
- If the condition evaluates to `false`, the block won’t execute.

## If...Else Statements
If we wanted to add some default behavior to the if statement, we can add an else statement to run a block of code when the condition evaluates to false. Take a look at the inclusion of an else statement:

```Javascript
let sale = true;
sale = false;
if(sale) {
  console.log('Time to buy!');
}else{
  console.log( 'Time to wait for a sale.');
}
```
An `else` statement must be paired with an if statement, and together they are referred to as an `if...else` statement.

In the example above, the `else` statement:

- Uses the `else` keyword following the code block of an `if` statement.
- Has a code block that is wrapped by a set of curly braces `{}`.
- The code inside the `else` statement code block will execute when the `if` statement’s condition evaluates to `false`.
- `if...else` statements allow us to automate solutions to yes-or-no questions, also known as binary decisions.

## Comparison Operators
When writing conditional statements, sometimes we need to use different types of operators to compare values. These operators are called comparison operators.

Here is a list of some handy comparison operators and their syntax:

- Less than: <
- Greater than: >
- Less than or equal to: <=
- Greater than or equal to: >=
- Is equal to: ===
- Is not equal to: !==
Comparison operators compare the value on the left with the value on the right. For instance:

`10 < 12 // Evaluates to true`

It can be helpful to think of comparison statements as questions. When the answer is “yes”, the statement evaluates to true, and when the answer is “no”, the statement evaluates to false. The code above would be asking: is 10 less than 12? Yes! So 10 < 12 evaluates to true.

We can also use comparison operators on different data types like strings:

`'apples' === 'oranges' // false`

In the example above, we’re using the identity operator (===) to check if the string 'apples' is the same as the string 'oranges'. Since the two strings are not the same, the comparison statement evaluates to false.

All comparison statements evaluate to either true or false and are made up of:

Two values that will be compared.
An operator that separates the values and compares them accordingly (>, <, <=,>=,===,!==).

```Javascript
//Example
let hungerLevel = 7;
if (hungerLevel > 7){
  console.log('Time to eat!');
}
else{
  console.log('We can eat later!');
}
```

## Logical Operators
